## β Beta

#### 2025-03-16 — 0.5.5

-   Added **Perform Quick Fixes** feature which, based on configurable Quick Fix title patterns, performs all Quick Fixes for the current file.
    -   Added default Quick Fix title patterns.
    -   Invoke by command (`Perform Quick Fixes`) or when _sharpening_ a file by setting `csharpen.performQuickFixesOnSharpen` to `true`. This is disabled by default.
    -   Whether enabled or not, not invoked when processing all project files.
-   Added setting (`csharpen.delayBeforeSharpeningFile`) to indicate delay in milliseconds before _sharpening_ file when processing all project files, which has a default value.
-   Fixes issue with processing all project files when editor preview (`workbench.editor.enablePreview`) is enabled.
-   Miscellaneous improvements and fixes.

#### 2025-03-15 — 0.5.4

-   Added Coding Style rule `csharpen.convertNonPrivateFieldsToProperties` which converts non-private fields to properties.
    -   To apply Coding Styles, use command: "Apply Coding Styles" or always apply when _sharpening_ by setting `csharpen.codingStylesEnabled` to `true`.
-   Added setting (`csharpen.delayBeforeDetectingFileDiagnostics`) to indicate delay in milliseconds before detecting File Diagnostics and Quick Fixes (to help with detecting them) when processing all project files, which has a default value.
-   Changed extension logo.

#### 2025-02-10 — 0.5.3

-   Added **Coding Styles** feature. Currently only one rule is available: `csharpen.useLanguageKeywordsInsteadOfFrameworkTypes`. This changes BCL/Framework types to language keywords on return and member types. Example: `System.String` to `string`, `Int32` to `int`, etc. More rules will be added in future versions.
    -   Use command: `Apply Coding Styles` or always apply when _sharpening_ by setting `csharpen.codingStylesEnabled` to `true`.

#### 2025-02-09 — 0.5.2

-   Minor changes in preparation for a new Coding Styles feature to be added in the next version.

#### 2025-02-08 — 0.5.1

-   On Symbol Renaming, a symbol will not be renamed if its new name already exists as a sibling symbol under the same parent. This is to prevent name conflicts.
-   Added a `PrivateConstOrFieldUnderline` Symbol Renaming configuration. There are now two available by default: `AsyncMethodSuffix` and `PrivateConstOrFieldUnderline`. Others can be added in settings, and others will be added in future versions. Note, Symbol Renaming configurations can be disabled in settings individually by settings `disabled` to `true`.

#### 2025-02-07 — 0.5.0

-   Added **Symbol Renaming** feature based on definable logic and patterns. This is disabled during removal of unused packages references. This can be enabled in settings (`csharpen.symbolRenamingEnabled` to enable on _sharpen_ and `csharpen.symbolRenaming` to define rules) and is disabled by default. Logic and patterns include: access modifier, member modifiers, symbol name pattern, return type pattern and symbol types. The renaming operation uses VS Code's built-in rename functionality thus all references in other files are renamed as well.
    -   Example use case (and a default setting): All methods that (1) include a member modifier of `async`, (2) have a return type of `Task` or `ValueTask` (with or without generic type arguments) and (3) the symbol name does not end with `Async` are renamed to have a suffix of `Async`.
-   Fixed issue with handling `event` symbols. (Side note: I've discovered that primary constructors and events are the hardest symbols to handle because of what the VS Code API provides, next would be delegates.)

#### 2025-02-02 — 0.4.3

-   Added ability to skip auto-generated files based on patterns when removing unused package references. This is on by default with one defined pattern. More patterns can be added. Settings: `csharpen.skipAutoGeneratedFileWhenRemovingUnusedReferences` and `csharpen.autoGeneratedPatterns`.
-   Added a re-attempt of failed builds when removing unused package references and the user has clicked 'Continue'. This will be in a forever loop until the user clicks 'Abort' or the build is successful. This provides ability to resolve issues and verifying resolution with a successful build during the removal of unused package references.

#### 2025-02-02 — 0.4.2

-   Fixed edge case issue where no using directives or namespace exists in a file with a class.

#### 2025-02-02 — 0.4.1

-   Minor improvements and fixes to parsing symbols, mostly relating to primary constructors.

#### 2025-02-01 — 0.4.0

-   **IN PREVIEW:** Feature to remove unused packages references (NuGet) of one or more projects in a solution. This also removes unused `using` directives and, now with this version, ability to _sharpen_ files.
-   Added setting (`csharpen.sharpenFilesWhenRemovingUnusedReferences`) to indicate whether to _sharpen_ files while removing unused package references. Disabled by default.
-   Added progress window when removing unused package references.
-   Added ability to cancel the process of removing unused package references.
-   Added ability for user to address issues when removing unused package references. User may continue the process or abort.
-   Added support for a workspace settings file to have per-workspace settings. This file can be generated by the command "Create CSharpen workspace settings file..." (`kokoabim.csharpen.create-workspace-settings-file`).
-   Added support for regex patterns in the `csharpen.doNotRemoveThesePackageReferences` setting.
-   Other minor improvements and fixes.

#### 2025-01-31 — 0.3.0

-   **IN PREVIEW** (i.e. can have issues though can undo): Added feature to remove unused packages references (NuGet) of one or more projects in a solution. This also removes unused `using` directives. (Command: `Remove Unused References Of Project...`)
    -   **KNOWN ISSUE:** There is a possibility that _used_ `using` directives are incorrectly removed. If so, since all files are opened and modified, it can be undone.
    -   Added setting (`csharpen.doNotRemoveThesePackageReferences`) to indicate what package names to skip when removing unused package references, which has a default value. A conditional removal can be indicated by appending a semicolon (`;`) and another package reference name. If the second package reference exists, then the primary package reference will not be removed.
        -   Example: `foo;bar` will remove `foo` only if `bar` does _not_ exist. There are some package references that are not referenced in code but tooling requires them to be present.
    -   Added setting (`csharpen.delayBeforeRemovingUnusedUsingDirectives`) to indicate delay in milliseconds before detecting and removing unused `using` directives (to help with detecting them), which has a default value.
-   Added ability to select one or more projects when sharpening all files in a project.
-   Fixed issue with parsing non-code blocks (e.g. comments) prior to symbols.

#### 2025-01-24 — 0.2.1

-   Fixed issue with properly structuring parent-to-child hierarchy of symbols.

#### 2025-01-19 — 0.2.0

-   Added ability to sharpen all files in a project.
-   Added ability to output File Diagnostics for all files in a project.

#### 2025-01-18 — 0.1.0

-   Added feature to enforce use of file-scoped namespaces on _sharpen_. This can be toggle in settings.
-   Upgraded to beta since there has been a lot of recent changes and fixes, and I use it heavily in my daily work and find it quite stable (and useful).

## ⍺ Alpha

#### 2025-01-18 — 0.0.13

-   Fixed issue when detecting and creating non-code blocks (e.g. comments). It was too aggressive and behavior would be that comments from down below would be pulled up to top symbols. Using a primary constructor could induce this.

#### 2025-01-17 — 0.0.12

-   Fixed issue with having multiple attributes.

#### 2025-01-17 — 0.0.11

-   Fixed issue with nested classes. (credit: [Kali Toste](https://github.com/Clayton-Toste))

#### 2025-01-17 — 0.0.10

-   Fixed issue with character at position 0:0 being trimmed.

#### 2024-12-24 — 0.0.9

-   Added setting to control whether sharpening can happen with a file that has diagnostic errors.

#### 2024-07-28 — 0.0.8

-   Made sure all settings have defaults.

#### 2024-07-27 — 0.0.7

-   Fixed issue with handling classes outside of namespaces.
-   Fixed issues introduced by the previous release regarding "maximum call stack size exceeded" errors.

#### 2024-07-27 — 0.0.6

-   Fixed issue with handling `event` declarations.

#### 2024-07-11 — 0.0.5

-   Added output of Quick Fixes to the `Output File Diagnostics` command.

#### 2024-07-04 — 0.0.4

-   Fixed minor issue with handling attributes.

#### 2024-07-03 — 0.0.3

-   Fixed issue with handling `using` directives which subsequently caused issues with handling single-line comments.

#### 2024-07-02 — 0.0.2

-   Added support for `Program.Main` `Task` return type (via File Filter pattern).
-   Fixed issue with handling single-line comments.
-   Fixed issue with handling attributes.
-   Updated package dependencies.

#### 2024-04-22 — 0.0.1

-   Initial release of something functional.
